The Semiotics of
D{evil}op{mental} Dis{ability}
Or:
A rehearsal on
	{how.to} becoming
autistic
My love, In this document, you will find many signs and glyphs. If you're using a screen reader, they will be spoken as "star sign", so "*BODY" should be spoken as: "*BODY". In a group, they will also be announced as semiotiki. This is not an Alt text, but rather a {trans}{crip}tion of the poetry and my reference-system.
1. A prologue
*WELL  Or: someplace between the horizon and pathology.~~ Not here, not yet.
It was a queer, sultry winter, the winter they shot the first Healthcare CEO, and I didn't know what I was doing in Amsterdam. I sought refuge in the oba public library, wedged between the gray sky and pathology, with the DSM-5 and ICD-10 propping up my computer. The Dutch copies - riddled with erratic marks, as if they were trying to find themselves or just rehearse the whole thing...
2. A Thesis
*WELL  Or: No, I don't think so(1).
This text began as a rehearsal for a performance - a script - a score. But when the performance was cancelled, the rehearsals took on a life of their own. So... no, this is not a thesis, but I offer you a list of my rehearsal notes.
It takes the form of a list because: "Rhetorically, the list does not and cannot allow a break for conversation, for dialogic interchange, ... It is authoritative, authoritarian, monolithic, not directed to the addressee but is spoken as if into empty space"(2) (with empty space he means to you). But Kanner agrees: "collections by [Milan] appear like soulless possessions... semantically and conversationally valueless"(3) And Asperger continues: "[Milan] just stacks boxes full of useless junk. And [they] watch over them like a miser."(6)
3. Margin notes (and parentheses)
*WELL  Or: Notes for a rehearsal - a suspended performance
*WELL  Or: An Autifiction - An Autiethnography
(1) Thanks Bhanu Kapil! Everything fell into place after I stole your butchers block. Kapil, Ban En Banlieue.
(2) Hans Asperger tried in 1944 to carve out(4) the category of "Intelligent but deviant, psychopathic children" (called "Asperger syndrome" from 1992 to 2022) from the category of autism. Asperger, "Die 'Autistischen Psychopathen' im Kindesalter."
(3) Leo Kanner tried in 1943 to carve out the category of autism from the category of child schizophrenia, to achieve that, he presents 11 children he calls "having autism" and describes their "sick [sic] behavior." Kanner, "Autistic Disturbances"
(4) To be fair, almost every mental health diagnosis was made up by a handful of psychiatrists trying to launch their careers by naming a new disorder(5); Cohen, Psychiatric Hegemony.
(5) Please don't get caught in the loop.(2) Understanding meaning and making meaning are not far apart. We will soon blur the distinctions between flesh and word, bodies and texts.
(6) Personally, I'd like to think of it as a (Balenciaga) carrier bag, but oh well.
*TRACE *RETRACE *BODY
(7) Stories I found in the creek next to the house I grew up in
"Heavenly Blue worried constantly. About the bills, the roof, the strange men watching the house {Empire has many eyes}, what the neighbors might whisper next, and Hollyhock's silence. He worried most about becoming mad-or already being mad-or the delicious space between. His worrying got things done: bills paid, roof fixed, strange men retreated, neighbors quieted, Hollyhock breathing again. Until finally, his worrying drove him mad-not the sanitized madness, but the raw madness of looking inward and finding borders already drawn. There was never enough warmth around him; he thought he'd dried up inside like a creek in summer. He wanted out, but 'out' wasn't on any map he knew. So Lilac, Pinetree, Moonbeam, Loose Tomato, and Hollyhock gathered. They held him for days, letting him cry, stare, slobber, scream, stim, and be gloriously silent. They created a queer doughnut culture around him-where the good stuff lived in the margins, the center beautifully, defiantly empty. Their house filled with comfort, routine, gladness, and weirdness until Heavenly Blue could no longer resist and became response-able again."(8)
{sometimes I whisper this to myself at night}
{I think you understand why}
[somebody starts singing...]
[then... a sudden spotlight on us]
We moved out when I was 8, due to bird poop on the roof, mold, and my father's allergy.
{but also because houses hold memories}
	{but also because Empires need borders}
{but also because some stories need creeks to survive}
	{Greeks to survive}
(8) Written from a dream about: Mitchell, The Faggots & Their Friends between Revolutions.
*FLOOR *I SEE U *NOUP
(9) My clock goes tic-tic
My Love, Dear Reader,
	[Amsterdam, 07 November]
I'm writing to you because I'm struggling for words and writing feels easy. I'm struggling for words because these words are not the easy ones. I'm struggling for words because as of late words are not easy.
I'm slowly understanding, unraveling - yet again - emerging from my autistic burnout. Yet again - autistic burnout - vastly different from clinical burnout, but also not. Some days, just existing is enough, or the wrong sound or wrong socks create more stress than any work could. It's multiplicative, not additive, and masking plays a giant role.
But then the symptoms (ohh fuck, I despise this word) are very similar. Exhaustion, a reduced sense of accomplishment and depersonalization. I don't feel the reward anymore for the work I do. And depersonalization, for me, means loosing first myself and then losing you. I remember caring, but at the same time it like a distant emotion that's locked away behind heavy doors.
Now, all of this in a way sounds soul crushing - I know - because in a way it truly and literally crushes you (well, "me"... but using "you" feels less personal). Yet, I've learned to be at peace with my bodymind. It's a lifeline demanding radical change - jet again. My body must first refuse exploitation. We already enacted enough violence against our bodyminds. Love, have you read Devon Price's new book, Unlearning Shame? You might enjoy it.
My love, we both know what I'm doing here. Have been doing here. Our politics. In my process of self-determination, of self-actualization. How the (self/auto-) epistemology of standpoint feminism demands now an auti-epistemology. The Bodymind, your bodymind, my bodymind as a prior - a point of departure. But then why is it so difficult to listen? Yes, this has Donna Haraway's "situated knowledge" all over it. However, my question to you: how do I situate myself? Find myself? Us? The boundaries of our bodies have been drawn long before any of us were born, and I don't fee like I have been part of this mapping practice.
I do feel better... It takes time - crip time, to sync, to re-sync my bodymind with the rest of the world.
Do I need to? Do I want to?
Either way, I would love to talk to you... have to. How do you feel about next Friday? I have so many questions.
	In deep appreciation of your bodymind,
	Never satisfied, therefor ever-loving,
	Stargazing as always,
	Mutually becoming,
	Love,
	Milan.
P.S. the rabbits in the park are still doing fine, I think
*HERE *START *STOP
(10) H stands for {be}coming home
In our Neuroqueerdos group, we recently prompted each other to replace "where do you come from?" with the question: "where do you know from?"
Digesting the question, we're suddenly thrust into Hḗphaistos's forge, where air trembles with heat, and iron bends to a crip hand. -- He moves with a crablike sidestep.(11)
Your grandma shouts across the room:
"what a queer body."
[the body bends around expectations]
[creating a rhythm in the break.]
This is Μῆτις (mētis) in its raw form: the knowledge not found in straight lines, but in the subtle, the skewed, the adaptive.(12)
Hḗphaistos pivots, circling anvils, drawing invisible maps with each uneven step. The tools of the gods glint, but it's the tools of survival, of subversion, that matter. His limp is not flaw but strategy - thinking with the body, moving through space on his terms.
But mētis also echoes mestiza,(13) invoking "doubleness and divergence," mixing and colonial violences. As Anzaldúa whispers, "Deconstruct, construct. She becomes a nahual, able to transform herself into a tree, a coyote, into another person. She learns to transform the small 'I' into the total self."(14)
I... u... I
This is where I know from - This is where I know through.(15)
As the fire roars, Hḗphaistos moves, his limp marking the floor in a pattern only he can follow, elusive and full of possibility...
[reality folds, our world shrinks]
And a voice like David Halperin whispers from Saint Foucault: Towards a Gay Hagiography: "'Queer,' in any case, does not designate a class of already objectified pathologies or perversions; rather, it describes a horizon of possibility whose precise extent and heterogeneous scope cannot in principle be delimited in advance."(16)
{but also because horizons keep moving}
{but also because possibilities resist delimiting}
{but also because advance is not always forward}
{but also because without you, my love - I would know nothing}
(11) Hephaestus as a crip figure in Greek mythology got whitewashed over time (the time being central European Renaissance and Enlightenment), but earlier text and depictions clearly show him as disabled
(12) Dolmage, "What Is Métis?"
(13) Yergeau, Authoring Autism.
(14) "She communicates that rupture, documents the struggle. She reinterprets history and, using new symbols, she shapes new myths." Anzaldúa, Borderlands. p. 104
(15) to diagnose: διάγνωσις - διά (through) γνωσις (to know).
(16) Halperin, Saint Foucault.
*CUSP *DESIRE *KNOW
(17) The stage lighting
I want the lights to feel like when you lie on the floor(18) of a chic gallery.
*LIST like when the world is too loud, but the floor is just right
*LIST like when your "body configurations" encircle sensory overflow
*LIST like when she is "so far gone into the sublime that she can't even talk. Ha."(19)
(18) This has long been a fantasy of mine... doing it just throws out the social contract of "normalcy." And also a ritual - a grounding I did whenever I performed on a new stage (lying on the stage, not the gallery). Ironically, the moment the performance starts this act becomes readable and thereby meaningless...
(19) Binnie, Nevada. Chapter 1.
*STAR
(20) 3 empty paragraphs
{Dahlia, dahlia, dahlia}(21)
{Dahlia, dahlia, dahlia}
{Dahlia, dahlia, dahlia} *REDO
(21) The child called Donald (one of 11 bodyminds used to define autism). in: Kanner, "Autistic Disturbances."
*OVER *WELL *NEXT
(22) The preface to this thesis
[Touching something lightly many times] (offstage)
You lower your head above the toilet bowl. I'm holding your hair - a one-sided relationship, given my bare head.
My mind drifts, caught in writing this text. Looking at the vomit beside the toilet, I realize it has to start here.
"I'm trying to become autistic..." tism - tism "aww tysm" I hum.
Our gazes collide, then retreat floorward. Did I just throw up on you? You feel dirty, uncomfortable. Or maybe I'm just projecting, but it leaves me feeling strangely objectified - lost in my own words. Or maybe you're just missing the social script for this situation... no?
A strange feeling, is it not? I giggle.
"Brat summer is dead, long live brat autism!" I whisper in your ear.
Rolling crip-queerly, outside the bounds of rhetoric.(13)
Cut. *STOP
*RUB *RUBRUB *SQUEEZE FLICK *HINGE UP
(23) A semiotics of monsters
So, This is also writing about words and words of words, of semiotics and form...
	Shouldn't we now say something about words? 	No?
So I will.
Is there an echo?
Hello? 	Hello. 	tic-tic
echolalia?
	Is someone there?	Speak - monster(24) - speak.
(24) Preciado, Can the Monster Speak?
*PAST *SIGN *THINK *BODY
(25) The foreword
Before we begin, a word about icons. These glyphs. Based on Unifonts Sutton SignWriting letters.(26) -- A system for writing out sign languages. Now, if you look at them, you probably realize that you don't understand them...
Why is that? What is your role in this relationship?
[We stay with that feeling for a minute...] *RUB *HERE
Now try to decipher them. You might find some meaning, no?
How does this feel?
How do these feelings compare? Both of them will appear many times throughout our journey... but so much messier. Let's keep this moment of clarity in our minds.(27)
(26) I don't identify as Deaf, and my interpretation of SignWriting is non-standard. But Deaf culture and their way of disidentification (a term from José Muñoz) is such an inspiration.
(27) Also - an invitation to interpret these movements throughout. As a stimming --- or an experiment in Crip Linguistics. (Henner and Robinson, "Unsettling Languages, Unruly Bodyminds.")
*MOOD *BUBBLE *HINGE DOWN
(28) Do you think they k-holed before writing their shizoanalysis?
or: The body without organs is an egg *PATH
or: On Rehearsals - On Reversals
"I think we're sort of getting somewhere in [this] dialogue and that's good. If I don't write to you c/o yr friend don't worry, I'll be here when you get back!"(29)
My Love, Yes I am very into you <3 - but... I'm sorry. This whole rehearsal, this performance - this thesis... it's just a lie. From the moment I mentioned rehearsals, I knew the performance would have to be suspended forever(30)... On the wall... a yellow piece of paper. It is covered in little pinholes... It reads:
The performance is suspended indefinite:
*DALIA You perform neurotypicality, I perform autism, for you - for the world - my therapist
*DALIA I've not finished deconstructing my own performance
*DALIA Do we need another one?
*DALIA Sometimes it feels like everybody is performing around me, and I just missed the rehearsal. Like I'm the only one who didn't memorize their script... didn't know their role.
*RUB In a rehearsal, you can still become*WAIT switch your mask, gender, costume
*DALIA I'm scared
*DALIA We are still figuring everything out - nothing is settled
*DALIA This is not even a thesis
*DALIA The practice is the point
*DALIA The becoming never ends
*DALIA I'm scared
*DALIA If we crystallize now... codify this moment...
*DALIA The becoming might end.
*DALIA We have just started.
{but also because some things require infinite preparation}
This text - [this] --- just another rehearsal. Pieced together from earlier rehearsals. You might call them my works or writing. But from my perspective, it's one continuous rehearsal... changing... shifting. In the future - I will lie in bed, pace around, or dance in a club - voicing these lines - again and again, quietly... rehearsing them, transforming them. Listening to my autofeedback - autifeedback until it feels right.
You just try to take a picture of a river. I disagree, but be my guest... take your photo - I know you have to. But this river you remember... is already gone... forever... the only way to keep it -- is to become the river... rehearse the river - together. My love, we both know that an image of a river and river are hardly the same thing. This is important to remember. I need you. We rely on you.
This is not even a thesis.
							[I'm just trying to become autistic.]
(29) Acker, Wark, and Viegener, I'm Very into You.
(30) Ibghy and Lemmens, "Rehearsal without Performance."
*BORDER *WRIST *FLOATING
(31) The (in)significant
I've always had a sort of love/hate relationship with semiotics. So last year when I began to look back into semiotics again. Can you imagine my joy when I learned where it originated from? Some guy in the 16th century just decided in his Thesaurus Graecae Linguae to translate diagnostics as σημειωτική. Semiotiki! And then none other than John Locke {yes... Jlock... of all people!} decided to pick it up and use it in his writing. Ohh, my love, do you see it? Everything falls into place. I hope you brought your lighter.
*NOUP *BREATHE *QUICK
(32) This is not even a thesis.
And I don't know if I want it to become one.
It is not even an antithesis.
"I feel like I'm circling around you, trying to spiral in tighter, but not quite knowing what the co-ordinates are. Vertigo. But I'm trying ..."(29)
I think of it as a counter-pathology. I don't seek to teach.(33) "explain" - me -- my world. My bodymind. I care little about creating a better narrative of autism. I want to ruin it.
Last year, Halberstam planted Afropessimism(35) in my ear. Something clicked. {The only way out of white supremacy is to destroy the world it has built.} Wilderson taught me that white supremacy isn't a building you can renovate - it's the ground the building stands on.
[soft voices around us, rhythmically, like they are trying to say: oh... how familiar that ground feels under my feet.]
The tools of dispossession always come from the same warehouse, don't they? Like how blackness and queerness and gender and neurodivergence become these ghostly - ontological - mirrors - smoke and funhouse reflections - where whiteness and neurotypicality can admire their own image(36) - their subject{ivity
	{Empire needs its borders}.
Look at my ICD-11, a love letter to normality - each page a list under the headline "boundary with normality", while normal sits smugly undefined. What a neat taxonomy. Manning whispered: "neurotypicality is another name for antiblackness"(37) and I wasn't even surprised anymore.
Haven't we known this all along? - like when you realize the master's tools were actually designed to build more master's houses(38) - like when you finally get your seat at the table and realize you've forgotten how to start fires.
{but also because these tables still need burning}
This text is full of repetitions, oxymorons, injection, dissonances - contrasting truths at peace with each other... Is this even a series of notes, or just a chapter called notes? Not a dialectic, but a wordless dialect, actively denying you a comprehensible subtext. Dalia Dalia Dalia. You can't resolve this. Not here. Not now. Hold that tension. Stay with the trouble. Too many claims pressed in the margins of this "thesis".
{but also because margins keep expanding}
{but also because notes become manifestos}
{but also because notes can still become}
And to be blunt *STAR I don't trust in your capacity to read my body, my performance, my text without pathology. Yes! This is a read! But be gentle - I don't fault you for it! I'm aspiring to be able to do it, but I also have to recognize I'm not yet able to. Empire(39) is expanding, and you may not simply walk away from Omelas.(40)
This text expresses a kind of dis- or unorientation. It points and gestures toward an unrealized and shifting future,(41) and understands itself and autism as a cultural site beyond pathology.
whispering (offstage):
    {desire desire desire}(42)
I ask you to not read this text as an enigmatic puzzle waiting to be solved --- I ask you -- to suspend hermeneutics --- to engage in a sort of pre-hermeneutic - maybe even an erotic(43) reading of my text. Read it softly... scream it... listen to it... touch it... lick it(44) fuck with it... fuck it... have sex with it -- I won't judge you. {it's called deep reading for a reason} I propose in that -- in engaging in a pre-hermeneutic - erotic -- sensorial experience(45) you -- are actualizing this future - you are - in fact, becoming autistic.
[the stage lights flicker and die]
[then on a screen, like rolling credits (but no credits)]
(33) so... I don't want to teach? Emotionally true... girl - but also delusional. As if this is not trying to teach... I could summon Derek Ford's writing on pedagogy... but Instead, let me share a story:
Picture me - having the time of my life on a tiny island (oh, oh) - and you - embarking on your learning journey (waow)...
bravely setting sail (oh, oh), discovering my island (ah) --
 					a new horizon! (oh, this is not what I meant with horizon)
discovering my world - a new world! Acquiring! Knowledge!
[ah shit... we know where this is going]
So when learning is discovering the new... then unlearning is {un}discovering the old.
[setting your boat adrift...] *TRACE *RETRACE *UNTRACE *RETURNING
[crashing into the harbor you set sail from.]
Not accumulating knowledge, but deliberate destruction. Not expanding territory, but relinquishing control. Not orientation, but disorientation.
So, if teaching is the gesture of pointing *QUICK directing your gaze toward the new, then unteaching is... ah... ah... you understand. {The semiotics of evil mental ability have always nestled within the fabric of developmental disability}.
{but also because looking at our knowledge and having a giggle is somehow all I can do}
	{but also because putting unteacher on my CV is somehow easier than
*SAME		"becoming autistic"}
(34) Ford, Teaching the actuality of revolution: aesthetics, unlearning, and the sensation of struggle. p. 26
(35) Wilderson, Afropessimism.
(36) Solomon, An Unkindness of Ghosts.
(37) Manning, The Minor Gesture.
(38) Lorde, The Master's Tools Will Never Dismantle the Master's House.
(39) Chapman, Empire of Normality: Neurodiversity and Capitalism.
(40) "The place they go towards is a place even less imaginable to most of us than the city of happiness. I cannot describe it at all. It is possible it does not exist. But they seem to know where they are going, the ones who walk away from Omelas." Guin, Ursula K. Le. The Ones Who Walk Away From Omelas.
(41) Not as the question "what will be?" but echoing Tina Campt's understanding of Black feminist futurity - I'd like to call it an ongoing continuous rehearsal for and of that future - now, in the present; Tina Campt, Listening to Images.
(42) "You want that too. You want to be frenzied enough by your own yearning, frenzied enough to risk everything." Olufemi, Experiments in Imagining Otherwise. p. 8
(43) Sontag, Against Interpretation and Other Essays.
(44) Think of the possibilities... You could do a reverse Listening to Images.
(45) You can find an eight-minute video from 2007 by Mel Bags titled In My Language on YouTube. A seminal piece of autistic media/art. Now is a good moment... I will wait for you here, don't worry.
*SIGN *THINK *YESYES
(46) On World building: Some missing signifying bodyminds
My love, I feel whenever we talk, our words dance past each other - never touching. And I know - we both carry our histories and feelings around like unopened letters. {we will read them together, I promise} Until then, here are some words I've gathered (*HITTING) and invented (*CEILING). Not all of them - some still need to stay mine. And I can't possibly give you all the meaning and emotions they carry for me... while some still hide beyond the horizon. But maybe they'll point you somewhere...
{but also because some words are still becoming}
*CEILING Autifiction: When I write myself into existence, but cant be captured. I You I Auto. And no, it's no Autibiography - it's a counterpoint. Like Virginia Wolf once whispered: "there's never been a woman's autobiography" - and I wonder if there's ever been an autistic's autobiography? Our stories are read as inspiration porn, puzzle pieces to solve, or triumph-over-tragedy fairy tales or even super-crip-narratives.(47) It's Individualized... it's just - I - auto - auti. I'm not interested in writing myself into their comprehension - their databases - their taxonomies - their lists - their studies - their meta-analyses of autistic emotional responsivity. This is autifiction: we depend on intra-actions, while trans-personal and In/ter/dependent bodyminds write stories, where "I" becomes "we" becomes "you" becomes I becomes...
{but also because some stories still become}
*HITTING Bodymind: Rejecting Descartes body/mind dualism nonsense. There is no mind apart from my body - and no body apart from my mind. My bodymind is autistic. From: Margaret Price, Mad at School.
*HITTING Echolalia: Words that dance in circles and come back - my mouth's favorite memories.
*HITTING Interpellations: when the doctor calls and shouts, "it's a boy" and suddenly, it is.
{but also because some scripts we can unlearn}
{but also because some calls we can refuse}
SIGN Gender: as a rehearsal - as (dis)identification, as a neurological condition or capacity, as a resource for ambiguity, as a social code or symbolic order, as performance, or as idiosyncrasy. There is a reason autistic therapy material contains so much teaching about gender... its binary and even its continuum is neurotypical. Even Butlers gender as performance or gender doing vs. being falls short. I think of Gender as rehearsal (yes theater- not embodied. not incorporated).
*SIGN Autiethnography: You know, as a kid I had to be an ethnographer, a researcher of my own cultural soundings. I frantically had to understand the "local" expectations and norms as not to appear non-normal. A bit like an Alien in my own body visiting my own world and observing their funny little rules. Now it's become my methodology.
*HITTING Stimming: When your bodymind dances with the sensory world - regulating, seeking, becoming. {but also because}
*CEILING Becoming: I spent years rehearsing nonautism, performing allism like a play I never auditioned for. Now I'm flipping the script - becoming autistic is my counter-rehearsal.
{but also because some masks still need unlearning}
{but also because becoming escapes every attempt of capture}
*HITTING Crip: Yes, from cripple... what they were shouting in school. You remember? Fifty years ago people began taking it back... but it's a process, and we are still living it.
{but also because pride is our only weapon against shame}
*HITTING Crip-time: My clock goes tic-tic. NT clock goes bye-bye. The word is from Alison Käfer. It's my clock now... but also Ellen Samuels whispers: time travel - grief time - broken time - sacred time - sick time - writing time - vampire time - I live in crip time, now.
*HITTING Counter-pathology: When we turn the diagnostic gaze back on them(49) {hah...surprise!...}. The long-standing autistic liberatory practice of saying: "oh wait, maybe it's you who is the deranged sicko". Like when autistics created "The Institute for the Study of the Neurologically Typical"(50) and suddenly the observers became the observed. Or how we invented "allistic" - and suddenly - you are Category. Yergeau whispers it best: "the very people who diagnose others' pathology encounter great difficulty in considering their own"(48)
{but also because being normal was always just a fantasy}
{but also because diagnosticians hate being diagnosed}
*CEILING Pre-hermeneutics: ἑρμηνεύω whispers: to translate - like when words still lived in your mouth and not on paper - like when meaning wasn't yet crystallized in dictionaries. And ἑρμηνεία murmurs: to interpret - like when they hadn't yet invented diagnostic manuals to interpret your existence. -- I stole "hermeneutics" from Sontag {she won't mind}. - When your bodymind is still exploring, playing, becoming. Like perceptual foreplay itself - touching, tasting -- stimming with possibility. The potential for sensing differently, sensing otherwise. Not yet named, not yet known, not yet diagnosed.
{but also because some things need to stay untranslated}
{but also because some rivers refuse to be photographed}
{but also because some horizons will only show themselves tomorrow}
{thank you for spending your time with me}
	{mutually becoming}
	{stargazing as always}
	{love}
	{Milan} *MG
(47) Rose, "Autistic autobiography or autistic life narrative?"
(48) Yergeau, Authoring Autism. p. 169
(49) Price, "'Her Pronouns Wax and Wane': Psychosocial Disability, Autobiography, and Counter-Diagnosis."
(50) Angryautie, "The Institute for the Study of the Neurologically Typical."
4. Ha{bib}is:
WELL or: a Bibliography
In place of a conclusion, or a bibliography for a thesis that is not one - anyway, I'm throwing a party - of tables, bodyminds - of thoughts I appreciate. I invited them for you to meet.
[Three tables are set.]
The first, the most crucial, where we welcome arrivals and have fun. To be up front about the social rules of this event: not chatting with them would make me sad. The second table also deserves your time-an enjoyable experience, I promise. The vibes are immaculate. And then, annoyingly, there's the third table (in the cellar): the self-invited, the ones I'd rather not host... They're dead anyway (but their words are still haunting me).
Table No 1
Chapman, Robert. Empire of Normality: Neurodiversity and Capitalism. London: Pluto Press, 2023.
Price, Devon. Unmasking Autism: Discovering the New Faces of Neurodiversity. New York: Harmony Books, 2022.
Solomon, Rivers. An Unkindness of Ghosts. New York: Akashic Books, 2017.
Walker, Nick. Neuroqueer Heresies: Notes on the Neurodiversity Paradigm, Autistic Empowerment, and Postnormal Possibilities. Fort Worth: Autonomous Press, 2021.
Yergeau, Remi. Authoring Autism: On Rhetoric and Neurological Queerness. Thought in the Act. Durham: Duke University Press, 2018.
Table No 2
Acker, Kathy, McKenzie Wark, and Matias Viegener. I'm Very into You: Correspondence 1995-1996. South Pasadena, CA: Semiotext(e), 2015.
Angryautie. "The Institute for the Study of the Neurologically Typical." Angry Autie (blog), June 24, 2013. https://angryautie.wordpress.com/2013/06/24/the-institute-for-the-study-of-the-neurologically-typical/.
Anzaldua, Gloria. Borderlands / La Frontera The New Mestiza. 5th ed. San Francisco: Aunt Lute Books, 2022.
Binnie, Imogen. Nevada. London: Pan Macmillan, 2022.
Campt, Tina. Listening to Images. Durham: Duke University Press, 2017.
Cohen, Bruce M. Z. Psychiatric Hegemony: A Marxist Theory of Mental Illness. London: Palgrave Macmillan, 2016.
Dolmage, Jay Timothy. "What Is Metis?" Disability Studies Quarterly 40, no. 1 (March 11, 2020). https://dsq-sds.org/index.php/dsq/article/view/7224.
EXPORT, VALIE. Einkreisung, Body Configurations. 1976. Gelatin silver print, 41 × 61 cm. New York, Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Ford, Derek. Teaching the Actuality of Revolution: Aesthetics, Unlearning, and the Sensation of Struggle. Madison, Wisconsin: Iskra Books, 2023.
Halperin, David M. Saint Foucault: Towards a Gay Hagiography. New York: Oxford university press, 1995.
Henner, Jon, and Octavian Robinson. "Unsettling Languages, Unruly Bodyminds: A Crip Linguistics Manifesto." Journal of Critical Study of Communication & Disability, May 19, 2023, 7-37 Pages. https://doi.org/10.48516/JCSCD_2023VOL1ISS1.4.
Ibghy, Richard, and Marilou Lemmens. "Rehearsal without Performance." In Putting Rehearsals to the Test: Practices of Rehearsal in Fine Arts, Film, Theater, Theory, and Politics, by Ilse Lafer, edited by Constanze Ruhm and Sabeth Buchmann. Publication Series of the Academy of Fine Arts Vienna 19. Berlin: Sternberg Press, 2016.
Kafer, Alison. Feminist, Queer, Crip. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 2013.
Kapil, Bhanu. Ban En Banlieue. New York: Nightboat Books, 2015.
Le Guin, Ursula K. The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas. New York: HarperCollins, 2017.
Lorde, Audre. The Master's Tools Will Never Dismantle the Master's House. Vol. 1. Penguin Books Ltd, 2017.
Love, Heather. Feeling Backward: Loss and the Politics of Queer History. Cambridge, Massachusetts London, England: Harvard University Press, 2009.
Manning, Erin. The Minor Gesture. Thought in the Act. Durham: Duke University Press, 2016.
Mel, Bags. In My Language, 2007. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JnylM1hI2jc.
Mitchell, Larry. The Faggots & Their Friends between Revolutions. New York: Nightboat Books, 2019.
Olufemi, Lola. Experiments in Imagining Otherwise. Maidstone: Hajar Press, 2021.
Piepzna-Samarasinha, Leah Lakshmi. The Future Is Disabled: Prophecies, Love Notes and Mourning Songs. Vancouver: Arsenal Pulp Press, 2022.
Preciado, Paul. Can the Monster Speak?. Fitzcarraldo Editions, 2021.
Price, Devon. Unlearning Shame: How We Can Reject Self-Blame Culture and Reclaim Our Power. New York: Harmony, 2024.
Price, Margaret. "'Her Pronouns Wax and Wane': Psychosocial Disability, Autobiography, and Counter-Diagnosis." Journal of Literary & Cultural Disability Studies 1, no. 1 (2009): 11-33. https://muse.jhu.edu/pub/105/article/260599.
Price, Margaret. Mad at School: Rhetorics of Mental Disability and Academic Life. Vol. 1. University of Michigan Press, 2010.
Rose, Irene. "Autistic Autobiography or Autistic Life Narrative?" Journal of Literary & Cultural Disability Studies 2 (May 2008): 44-54. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/275991757_Autistic_autobiography_or_autistic_life_narrative.
Samuels, Ellen. "Six Ways of Looking at Crip Time." Disability Studies Quarterly 37 (August 2017). https://dsq-sds.org/index.php/dsq/article/view/5824/4684.
Sontag, Susan. Against Interpretation and Other Essays. New York: Picador U.S.A, 2001.
Wark, McKenzie. Raving. Rome: Nero Editions, 2023.
Wilderson, Frank B. Afropessimism. New York: Liveright Publishing Corporation, 2021.
Wong, Alice. Disability Intimacy: Essays on Love, Care, and Desire. New York: Penguin Random House, 2024.
Table No 3
Asperger, Hans. "Die "Autistischen Psychopathen" im Kindesalter." Archiv für Psychiatrie und Nervenkrankheiten 117, no. 1 (June 1944): 76-136. https://doi.org/10.1007/BF01837709.
Kanner, L. "Autistic Disturbances of Affective Contact." Nervous Child 2 (1943): 217-50.
14



*YOU SEE *SHADOW *WAIT *LIST *PEAKS *NO SEE *REDO *I SEE U

Milan Gress
